guides for inference in RL/Verl (#2055)
llm-d/llm-d: guides/rl/llm-d-verl-integration.md

# llm-d verl Integration (EPP routing)

This integration points [verl][verl] rollout generation at llm-d's Endpoint
Picker (EPP), so each rollout request is routed by the same prefix-cache- and
load-aware logic llm-d uses for production inference. It is wired up through
configuration alone - no changes to verl's source - and works whether verl
calls EPP directly or sends generation to an llm-d serving endpoint (see
[Integration modes](#integration-modes) below).

> [!NOTE]
> verl is the first framework supported by llm-d-rl, but the integration is
> framework-agnostic by design. This guide is a high-level overview; the
> implementation, supported versions, and end-to-end examples live in the
> [llm-d-rl repository][llm-d-rl].

## How it works

Instead of least-requests routing, each rollout request is scored by EPP,

> which ranks every candidate vLLM replica on prefix-cache hit rate, queue

Reviewer: ```suggestion
which ranks every candidate model server replica on prefix-cache hit rate, queue
```

depth, and KV utilization and steers the request to the replica most likely
to already have a warm cache. For the large, prefix-sharing sample groups
that GRPO and PPO produce, this is a meaningful throughput win and reduces the
long-tail latency that stalls synchronous training steps.

Because llm-d runs in its [no-Kubernetes mode](../no-kubernetes-deployment/README.md) -

> EPP, Envoy, and the vLLM workers deployed as plain processes rather than

Reviewer: ```suggestion
EPP, Envoy, and the model servers are deployed as plain processes rather than
```

Kubernetes resources - the stack drops cleanly into a **Ray or Slurm** cluster
without requiring a control plane. Prefill/decode (P/D) disaggregation is
supported in both integration modes.

## Integration modes

> - **EPP as the endpoint picker** - the framework calls EPP directly to pick a

Reviewer: pls adjust the naming as suggested in the other comments
